docs/pages/server-access/guides/restricted-session.mdx, before:

---
title: Restricted Sessions for SSH
description: How restrict what can be performed under an SSH session
h1: Restricted Sessions for SSH
videoBanner: DgFZpWszL4M
---

With a Restricted Session, Teleport allows the administrator to specify a policy to
apply to SSH sessions. This policy can restrict access to certain resources. Currently
Teleport supports network restrictions with more types coming in the future.

## Prerequisites

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

- A running Teleport cluster, version >= 7.0.0. For details on how to set this up,
  see [Getting Started on a Linux
  Server](../../getting-started/linux-server.mdx).

- The `tctl` admin tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  See [Installation](../../installation.mdx) for details.

- A host running Linux kernel 5.8 (or above), which you will use to deploy a
  Teleport Node.

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
<TabItem
  scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

- A running Teleport cluster, version >= 7.0.0. For details on setting this up, see
  our [Enterprise getting started guide](../../enterprise/getting-started.mdx).

- The `tctl` admin tool version >= (=teleport.version=), which you can download
  by visiting the
  [customer portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

- A host running Linux kernel 5.8 (or above), which you will use to deploy a
  Teleport Node.

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]}
  label="Cloud">

- A Teleport Cloud account. If you do not have one, visit the
  [sign up page](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to begin your free trial.

- The Enterprise version of the `tctl` admin tool. To download this, visit
the [customer portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

- A host running Linux kernel 5.8 (or above), which you will use to deploy a
  Teleport Node.

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### Linux distributions and supported kernels

<table>
<thead>
  <tr><td>Distro name</td><td>Distro version</td><td>Kernel version</td></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr><td>Ubuntu "Groovy Gorilla"</td><td>20.10</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Fedora</td><td>33</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Archlinux</td><td>2020.09.01</td><td>5.8.5+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Flatcar</td><td>2765.2.2</td><td>5.10.25+</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Network Restrictions

Network restrictions work similarly to a firewall but with several differences:
1. Firewall rules apply to the entire machine whereas network restrictions are applied
   only to SSH sessions.
2. Whereas firewall typically blocks ingress (inbound) connections, network restrictions
   block egress (outbound) connections.
3. Firewall rules are typically static but Teleport provides an API for
   Restricted Sessions that allows the rules to be dynamically updated across
   the entire fleet.

## Step 1/4. Install and configure a Teleport Node

Set up your Teleport Node with the following content in `/etc/teleport.yaml`.

<Notice type="warning">

  Restricted Sessions require Enhanced Recording to be enabled. This
  requirement will be removed in the future.

</Notice>

```yaml
# Example config to be saved as /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: graviton-node
  auth_token: exampletoken
  auth_servers:
  # Replace with IP of Teleport Auth server.
  - 127.0.0.1:3025
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  enhanced_recording:
    # Must be enabled for Restricted Sessions to work.
    enabled: true
    # Optional: Controls where cgroupv2 hierarchy is mounted. Default value:
    # /cgroup2.
    cgroup_path: /cgroup2

  restricted_session:
    enabled: true
```

## Step 2/4. Define a network restrictions policy

Create a file called `netpolicy.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: network_restrictions
version: v5
metadata:
  name: network-restrictions
spec:
  # When Restricted Sessions are enabled, the network policy becomes
  # "deny-all". Must add back the ranges to allow
  allow:
    # Allow LAN access
    - cidr: 10.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: 172.16.0.0/12
    - cidr: 192.168.0.0/16

    # Allow link-local
    - cidr: 169.254.0.0/16
    - cidr: fe80::/10

    # Allow localhost
    - cidr: 127.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: ::1/128

  # Override "allow" list with exceptions
  deny:
    # Finance database
    - cidr: 10.1.2.4
```

Install the policy using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f netpolicy.yaml
# network restrictions have been updated
```

If Restricted Sessions are not enabled in `teleport.yaml`, all network
operations will be allowed. When Restricted Sessions are enabled but a
`network_restrictions` object has not been created via `tctl` or the API, the
default policy stays allow-all.

However when the `network_restrictions` object is created, the default policy
switches to deny-all. If you expect network operations to target certain
IP ranges, be sure to state these within the `allow` section.

## Step 3/4. Test by logging into your Node via Teleport

```code
$ curl -v https://google.com
# *   Trying 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e: Operation not permitted
# *   Trying 172.217.6.78:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 172.217.6.78: Operation not permitted
# * Closing connection 0
# curl: (7) Couldn't connect to server
```

## Step 4/4. Inspect logs

The Teleport audit log will contain an entry with a `session.network` event (there may be
more entries present for the same `curl` command):

```json
{
  "ei": 173,
  "event": "session.network",
  "uid": "dda39eb4-13e1-45fd-a039-35b4dca1fa51",
  "code": "T4002I",
  "time": "2021-07-22T22:24:14.984Z",
  "cluster_name": "teleport-quickstart",
  "user": "demo",
  "login": "demo",
  "sid": "c8e0b0d5-3994-4221-b701-c1ae17d871f1",
  "namespace": "default",
  "server_id": "4951c001-8dad-4e21-abb6-c03f69b72d2e",
  "pid": 319267,
  "cgroup_id": 10863,
  "program": "curl",
  "src_addr": "0.0.0.0",
  "dst_addr": "216.58.194.206",
  "dst_port": 80,
  "version": 4,
  "operation": 0,
  "action": 1
}
```

This is the same event that is issued by Enhanced Recording. You can differentiate them by the `action` field.
Enhanced Recording sets the `action` to `0` (`OBSERVED`) while a Restricted Session sets this value to `1` (`DENIED`).

<Admonition type="tip">
  To quickly check the status of the audit log, you can simply tail the logs with
  `tail -f /var/lib/teleport/log/events.log`, the resulting capture from Teleport will
  be a JSON log for each command and network request.
</Admonition>

## Next steps

- See the [Teleport Configuration Reference](../../setup/reference/config.mdx) for more
information on configuring Restricted Sessions.

Commit message:

BPF Session Recording
- Add scoped tabs
- Merge steps 2 and 3, which both involved examining the audit log to
  verify that Enhanced Session Recording is enabled
- Misc style/grammar/clarity tweaks

docs/pages/server-access/guides/restricted-session.mdx, after:

---
title: Restricted Sessions for SSH
description: How restrict what can be performed under an SSH session
h1: Restricted Sessions for SSH
videoBanner: DgFZpWszL4M
---

With a Restricted Session, Teleport allows the administrator to specify a policy to
apply to SSH sessions. This policy can restrict access to certain resources. Currently
Teleport supports network restrictions with more types coming in the future.

## Prerequisites

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

- A running Teleport cluster, version >= 7.0.0. For details on how to set this up,
  see [Getting Started on a Linux
  Server](../../getting-started/linux-server.mdx).

- The `tctl` admin tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  See [Installation](../../installation.mdx) for details.

- A Teleport Node running on a host with Linux kernel 5.8 (or above).

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
<TabItem
  scope={["enterprise"]} label="Enterprise">

- A running Teleport cluster, version >= 7.0.0. For details on setting this up, see
  our [Enterprise getting started guide](../../enterprise/getting-started.mdx).

- The `tctl` admin tool version >= (=teleport.version=), which you can download
  by visiting the
  [customer portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

- A Teleport Node running on a host with Linux kernel 5.8 (or above).

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]}
  label="Cloud">

- A Teleport Cloud account. If you do not have one, visit the
  [sign up page](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to begin your free trial.

- The Enterprise version of the `tctl` admin tool. To download this, visit
the [customer portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

- A Teleport Node running on a host with Linux kernel 5.8 (or above).

  You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
  something like the following.

  ```code
  $ uname -r
  # 5.8.17
  ```

  See below for more details on the required versions for your Linux kernel and
  distribution.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### Linux distributions and supported kernels

<table>
<thead>
  <tr><td>Distro name</td><td>Distro version</td><td>Kernel version</td></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr><td>Ubuntu "Groovy Gorilla"</td><td>20.10</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Fedora</td><td>33</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Archlinux</td><td>2020.09.01</td><td>5.8.5+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Flatcar</td><td>2765.2.2</td><td>5.10.25+</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Network Restrictions

Network restrictions work similarly to a firewall but with several differences:
1. Firewall rules apply to the entire machine whereas network restrictions are applied
   only to SSH sessions.
2. Whereas firewall typically blocks ingress (inbound) connections, network restrictions
   block egress (outbound) connections.
3. Firewall rules are typically static but Teleport provides an API for
   Restricted Sessions that allows the rules to be dynamically updated across
   the entire fleet.

## Step 1/4. Install and configure a Teleport Node

Set up your Teleport Node with the following content in `/etc/teleport.yaml`.

<Notice type="warning">

  Restricted Sessions require Enhanced Recording to be enabled. This
  requirement will be removed in the future.

</Notice>

```yaml
# Example config to be saved as /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: graviton-node
  auth_token: exampletoken
  auth_servers:
  # Replace with IP of Teleport Auth server.
  - 127.0.0.1:3025
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  enhanced_recording:
    # Must be enabled for Restricted Sessions to work.
    enabled: true
    # Optional: Controls where cgroupv2 hierarchy is mounted. Default value:
    # /cgroup2.
    cgroup_path: /cgroup2

  restricted_session:
    enabled: true
```

## Step 2/4. Define a network restrictions policy

Create a file called `netpolicy.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: network_restrictions
version: v5
metadata:
  name: network-restrictions
spec:
  # When Restricted Sessions are enabled, the network policy becomes
  # "deny-all". Must add back the ranges to allow
  allow:
    # Allow LAN access
    - cidr: 10.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: 172.16.0.0/12
    - cidr: 192.168.0.0/16

    # Allow link-local
    - cidr: 169.254.0.0/16
    - cidr: fe80::/10

    # Allow localhost
    - cidr: 127.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: ::1/128

  # Override "allow" list with exceptions
  deny:
    # Finance database
    - cidr: 10.1.2.4
```

Install the policy using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f netpolicy.yaml
# network restrictions have been updated
```

If Restricted Sessions are not enabled in `teleport.yaml`, all network
operations will be allowed. When Restricted Sessions are enabled but a
`network_restrictions` object has not been created via `tctl` or the API, the
default policy stays allow-all.

However when the `network_restrictions` object is created, the default policy
switches to deny-all. If you expect network operations to target certain
IP ranges, be sure to state these within the `allow` section.

## Step 3/4. Test Restricted Sessions

```code
$ curl -v https://google.com
# *   Trying 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e: Operation not permitted
# *   Trying 172.217.6.78:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 172.217.6.78: Operation not permitted
# * Closing connection 0
# curl: (7) Couldn't connect to server
```

## Step 4/4. Inspect logs

The Teleport audit log will contain an entry with a `session.network` event (there may be
more entries present for the same `curl` command):

```json
{
  "ei": 173,
  "event": "session.network",
  "uid": "dda39eb4-13e1-45fd-a039-35b4dca1fa51",
  "code": "T4002I",
  "time": "2021-07-22T22:24:14.984Z",
  "cluster_name": "teleport-quickstart",
  "user": "demo",
  "login": "demo",
  "sid": "c8e0b0d5-3994-4221-b701-c1ae17d871f1",
  "namespace": "default",
  "server_id": "4951c001-8dad-4e21-abb6-c03f69b72d2e",
  "pid": 319267,
  "cgroup_id": 10863,
  "program": "curl",
  "src_addr": "0.0.0.0",
  "dst_addr": "216.58.194.206",
  "dst_port": 80,
  "version": 4,
  "operation": 0,
  "action": 1
}
```

This is the same event that is issued by Enhanced Recording. You can differentiate them by the `action` field.
Enhanced Recording sets the `action` to `0` (`OBSERVED`) while a Restricted Session sets this value to `1` (`DENIED`).

<Admonition type="tip">
  To quickly check the status of the audit log, you can simply tail the logs with
  `tail -f /var/lib/teleport/log/events.log`, the resulting capture from Teleport will
  be a JSON log for each command and network request.
</Admonition>

## Next steps

- See the [Teleport Configuration Reference](../../setup/reference/config.mdx) for more
information on configuring Restricted Sessions.
